# MySQL-password-change

Steps to Change the MySQL Password on Windows:
Open Windows Services:

Press Windows + S or click the Start menu and search for Services.
Click on the Services application to open it.
Stop the MySQL Service:

In the Services window, scroll down to find MySQL80 (or the version you are using).

Right-click on MySQL80 and select Stop to stop the MySQL service.

Explanation: Stopping the MySQL service ensures that no other process is using the database, allowing you to change the password securely.

Navigate to the MySQL Server Directory:

Open File Explorer and go to C:\Program Files\MySQL\MySQL Server 8.0 (or the path where MySQL is installed).

Enter the bin folder and copy its path (e.g., C:\Program Files\MySQL\MySQL Server 8.0\bin).

Explanation: The bin folder contains the MySQL executable files needed to run MySQL commands from the command prompt.

Create a New File to Alter Password:

Create a new text file (you can use Notepad or any text editor).

In this file, write the MySQL command to change the password. For example:

sql
Copy code
ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'new_password';
Save this file as alter_password.sql in a location of your choice (e.g., C:\mysql_scripts).

Explanation: This script contains the command that will be executed to update the root user's password. It specifies changing the password to new_password.

Open Command Prompt as Administrator:

Press Windows + X and select Command Prompt (Admin) or PowerShell (Admin) to open the command prompt with administrator privileges.

Explanation: Running the command prompt as an administrator ensures that you have the necessary permissions to execute commands that modify MySQL configurations.

Run the Password Reset Command:

In the command prompt, navigate to the bin folder by typing:

cd "C:\Program Files\MySQL\MySQL Server 8.0\bin"
Then run the MySQL command to reset the password:

mysqld --init-file="C:\mysql_scripts\alter_password.sql"
Explanation: The --init-file option tells MySQL to execute the commands in the specified file (alter_password.sql) when the service starts. This will change the root password.

Restart the MySQL Service:

Go back to the Services window, right-click MySQL80, and click Start to restart the MySQL service.

Explanation: Once the password has been updated, you need to restart the MySQL service to apply the changes.

Login with the New Password:

After MySQL restarts, open a command prompt or MySQL Workbench and try logging in with the new password using:

mysql -u root -p
Explanation: This will prompt you to enter the new password, and if successful, you will be logged in as the root user.
